Scalar DB server sample (#2)
scalar-labs/scalardb-samples: README.md

> # Scalar DB server Samples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Scalar DB Server Samples
```

- This repository contains the sample application that will connect to `Scalar DB server` as backend. For using native `Scalar DB` library to connect to `Scalar DB` directly please refer to this document [`Getting Started`](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md).

> - `Scalar DB server` is a `gRPC` server that implements Scalar DB interface. More information about `Scalar DB server` can be found [`here`](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/tree/master/docs/scalardb-server.md)

Reviewer: I think this sentence should come earlier than the sentence above.

```suggestion
More information about Scalar DB server can be found [here](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/tree/master/docs/scalardb-server.md)
```

> ## Our sample application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sample application
```

> A simple electronic money cli app which has the following features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sample application is a simple electronic money application that has the following features:
```

- Charge an `amount` to a `user_id`
- Pay an `amount` from a `user_id` to another `user_id`

## Prerequisites
- Java (OpenJDK 8 or higher)
- Gradle
- Docker, Docker Compose

> ## Setting up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up
```

### Scalar DB server

> - In this sample we will use Cassandra as storage for our Scalar DB server. Cassandra will also run along with Scalar DB server in containers. The setting for our Scalar DB server is [`database.properties`](./database.properties)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this sample, we will use Cassandra as storage for Scalar DB server. The configuration of Scalar DB server is shown below. (It is also stored in [database.properties](./database.properties))
```

```
# Comma separated contact points
scalar.db.contact_points=cassandra

# Port number for all the contact points. Default port number for each database is used if empty.
scalar.db.contact_port=9042

# Credential information to access the database
scalar.db.username=cassandra
scalar.db.password=cassandra

# Storage implementation. Either cassandra or cosmos or dynamo or jdbc can be set. Default storage is cassandra.
scalar.db.storage=cassandra
```

> - To start our Scalar DB server, we use the below command (please note that we should wait around a bit more one minute to make sure every container is already up, because Scalar DB container has to wait for Cassandra container to be fully started)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To start our Scalar DB server, we use the below command (please note that we should wait around a bit more than one minute to make sure every container is already up, because Scalar DB container has to wait for Cassandra container to be fully started)
```

> - To start our Scalar DB server, we use the below command (please note that we should wait around a bit more than one minute to make sure every container is already up, because Scalar DB container has to wait for Cassandra container to be fully started)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start Scalar DB server, we use the following command. Please note that we should wait around a bit more than one minute because Scalar DB container has to wait for Cassandra container to be fully started.
```

```
docker-compose -f docker-compose-cassandra.yml up -d
```

> - *For using other databases as backend for Scalar DB server we can change the configuration in [`database.properties`](database.properties) according to [`Getting Started`](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md). After that we can start our `Scalar DB server` using this [`docker-compose.yml`](docker-compose.yml) instead.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*For using other databases as the backend for Scalar DB server, we can change the configuration of [database.properties](database.properties) according to [Getting Started](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md). After that we can start Scalar DB server using [docker-compose.yml](docker-compose.yml) instead.*
```

> ### Scalar DB Client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Scalar DB client
```

> - Our sample application will connect to `Scalar DB server` via gRPC, the configuration basically is same format with our server configuration, the different is we have to change storage to gRPC and transaction manager to gRPC as well. The configuration is [`scalardb-client.properties`](scalardb-client.properties).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Our sample application will connect to `Scalar DB server` via gRPC, the configuration basically has the same format as our server configuration, the difference is we have to change storage to gRPC and transaction manager to gRPC as well. The configuration is [`scalardb-client.properties`](scalardb-client.properties).
```

> - Our sample application will connect to `Scalar DB server` via gRPC, the configuration basically has the same format as our server configuration, the difference is we have to change storage to gRPC and transaction manager to gRPC as well. The configuration is [`scalardb-client.properties`](scalardb-client.properties).

Reviewer: I think this part is pretty tricky since the client used in the sample implements Scalar DB interface as well.

```suggestion
The sample application uses a client that implements Scalar DB interface. Thus, you can configure the client in the same way as the server-side. But, in this case, you need to specify the server as a contact point and `grpc` for the storage and transaction_manager configuration as follows. (it is stored in [scalardb-client.properties](scalardb-client.properties)).
```

```
# Comma separated contact points
scalar.db.contact_points=127.0.0.1

# Port number for all the contact points. Default port number for each database is used if empty.
scalar.db.contact_port=60051

# Credential information to access the database
scalar.db.username=
scalar.db.password=

# Storage implementation
scalar.db.storage=grpc

# The type of the transaction manager
scalar.db.transaction_manager=grpc
```

> - Setting up Scalar DB schema: As mentioned in [`Getting started with Scalar DB`](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/getting-started-with-scalardb.md) storing and retrieving data in `Scalar DB` can be `storage` or `transaction`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Setting up Scalar DB schema: As mentioned in [`Getting started with Scalar DB`](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/getting-started-with-scalardb.md) storing and retrieving data in `Scalar DB` can be done using either the `storage` or the `transaction` mode.
```

> - Setting up Scalar DB schema: As mentioned in [`Getting started with Scalar DB`](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/getting-started-with-scalardb.md) storing and retrieving data in `Scalar DB` can be done using either the `storage` or the `transaction` mode.

Reviewer: From here, please update the doc based on the suggestions above.
Maybe this part should be in the `Run the sample` section?
Otherwise, users might skip applying the schema.

Author: It has to be done before running so I think we should keep it in the setup section

    - Our storage schema is  [`emoney-storage-schema.json`](./src/main/resources/emoney-storage-schema.json)
    ```
    {
      "emoney_storage.account": {
        "transaction": false,
        "partition-key": [
          "id"
        ],
        "clustering-key": [],
        "columns": {
          "id": "TEXT",
          "balance": "INT"
        }
      }
    }
    ```

>     to register schema to our Cassandra instance we run following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    to register schema to our Cassandra instance we run the following command:
```

    ```
    java -jar tools/scalar-schema-standalone-3.1.0.jar --cassandra -h localhost -u cassandra -p cassandra -f src/main/resources/emoney-storage-schema.json
    ```

>     Please note that `scalar-schema-standalone-3.1.0.jar` is schema registration tool that can be found in [`release`](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/releases) of `Scalar DB`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Please note that `scalar-schema-standalone-3.1.0.jar` is the schema registration tool that can be found in [`release`](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/releases) of `Scalar DB`
```

    - In case using transaction, our schema looks like [`emoney-transaction-schema.json`](src/main/resources/emoney-transaction-schema.json)
    ```
    {
      "emoney_transaction.account": {
        "transaction": true,
        "partition-key": [
          "id"
        ],
        "clustering-key": [],
        "columns": {
          "id": "TEXT",
          "balance": "INT"
        }
      }
    }
    ```
    and the registering command is
    ```
    java -jar tools/scalar-schema-standalone-3.1.0.jar --cassandra -h localhost -u cassandra -p cassandra -f src/main/resources/emoney-transaction-schema.json
    ```

> ## Run our sample

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Run the sample
```
